---
title: Welcome to my portfolio
---

My name is Justin, I have been in the Computer Science program for just over two years now. I have learned so much more than I could have ever though when I initially applied to the program, including but not limited to python, c++, sql, mysql, secure coding practices, creating 3D graphics, automation qa techniques, generative learning, and much more. The three most important concepts would be secure coding practices, critical thinking/problem solving, and algorithms and data structures.

When I begin thinking about trying to assess myself and my skills and abilities it truly amazes me just how far I have been able to come throughout this program. I came into this degree with the knowledge of around three lessions of CS50 through Harvards online course. Now I have been able to complete multiple projects and begin work on a few personal projects. My biggest strength is being able to adapt to new stacks and languages/programs. Throughout the course there were only a few times where we utilized the same language, and even in those situations it seemed to always be Java, which I would argue my skills were behind on. Specifically, in my personal project within this portfolio I ended up utilizing an entirely new stack to me, Next.js and supabase. Being able to adapt to what I am either being told to use or what I am forced to used is extremely helpful in the professional world as it is extremely unlikely that I would end up in a situation that would be using the exact stack that I am used to. So being able to adapt and learn quickly can greatly improve my value to the company and team as a whole. Outside of that, my skill I am most proud of is being able to adapt to code that is in front of me and be able to understand it to the point where I can improve upon it. Both of the other projects in this portfolio were created by me, but the text based app was nearly two years ago. The inventory was much more recent, but a lot of the work was done in batches, which lead to me forgetting exactly how some of it was working, which I had to relearn when I was trying to enhance it for this capstone project. In the real world, we are going to be thrown into massive existing code bases that we will have to adapt to and understand multiple aspects of it, and I believe these other projects show my ability to do so.

Below is a link to my initial code review before any of the enhancements were initialized. 
https://youtu.be/InvH2ioRJ3Q
