---
title: "Initial Proposal"
date: 2025-03-08
---

My name is Justin, I have been in the Computer Science program for just over two years now. I have learned so much more than I could have ever though when I initially applied to the program, including but not limited to python, c++, sql, mysql, secure coding practices, creating 3D graphics, automation qa techniques, generative learning, and much more. The three most important concepts would be secure coding practices, critical thinking/problem solving, and algorithms and data structures.

My current plan for fulfilling the requirements of the capstone as well as building out a portfolio that I am proud of consists of substantially improving my text based game from IT-140, adding some additional functionality to my inventory application from CS-360, and finally beginning development of a web based application to fulfill a personal project.

For the text based game from It-140, I plan to expand upon the application so that the game is able to offer different outcomes and paths each time the user plays the game. In its current state it is an extremely simplistic python app, as it was the very first project that I created within this degree. This will allow me to demonstrate my skills and abilities in algorithms and data structures through implementing a procedurally generated map, rather than the static map that was originally implented in the app. 

For the additional functionality for my inventory application from CS-360, I would like to expand upon the security of the login feature as well as having the databases linked to the specific user that is logged in. In its current state, each user that logs in has access to the same database that is initially created. This worked for the initial iteration, but sort of makes it hard to use if I were to publish it onto an app store. This allows me to expand upon and demonstrate my skills and abilities in databases.

Finally to put a majority of the coursework together and expand some of the web based application work that we did in the few classes in this degree program, I plan to begin development on a personal project. This personal project would help my friend group track what is referred to as a disc golf tag league, where tags are dispersed to each player based on how they scored on the round for the day. While this can be done in person, having the option to keep track of where each tag is, as well as keeping track of a history of the rounds that are played and where players have placed throughout the course of us playing. This would demonstrate my skills and abilities in all three of the key areas of software design and engineering, algorithms and data structure, and databases. Being able to start work on this web application would lead me on the right path to ideally produce a mobile application on each individual app store so that it is much more accessible for each player within our group to view everything. In addition, having the ability to keep track of the history of player rankings would allow me to further delve into the data analysis side of my degree to come to conclusions and insights that could be interesting for the group to see. Being able to implement this will go very far in bridging a gap/weakness in my skillset to where it is hard for me to find something that I want to create and how to start it. I do worry for the timeframe that might be required to implement this as I currently am envisioning, but believe with enough effort I can absolutely make it happen.

## More in depth details of each enhancement plan
### Category One: Software Engineering and Design
The web based application will help demonstrate my skills and abilities within software engineering and design. This would be started up from this point on, so there is no direct origin of the project, but it will be a culmination of the skills I have learned throughout the course. I currently plan to utilize Next.js and supabase to try to help simplify things on my end.
Psuedocode:
Structure:
/tag league tracker pages/
  index.js # Homepage
  login.js # Login page
  signup.js # Signup page
  dashboard.js # Admin panel
  api/
    auth.js # API routes
    leaderboard.js # Fetch leaderboard
    updatetag.js # Handle tag updates
components/
  Navbar.js # Navigation bar
  Leaderboard.js # Leaderboard component
  UpdateForm.js # Form to update tags
styles/ # Styling
utils/ # Helper functions
.env # API keys
package.json

Functionality:
Authentication:
Function handleLogin(email, password):
  If successful:
    Log in user
  Else:
    Show error
Function handleSignup(email, password, name):
  If successful:
    Add user to database
    Take user to login page
  Else:
    Show error 
Function handleLogout():
  Redirect user to login page

Leaderboard
Function fetchLeaderboard():
  If successful:
    Return leaderboard
  Else:
    Show error

Updating Tags
Function updateTag(user_id, new_tag_number):
  If user is admin:
    If successful:
      Refresh leaderboard
    Else:
      Show error
  Else:
    Show no access

Frontend
Home
Display leaderboard
  Show tag number and name
If admin:
  Display update tag button

Login
Display login
  Show email/password form
  Call handleLogin()

Signup
Display signup
  Show signup form
    Call handleSignup()

Dashboard
If user is admin
  Show dropdown of users with a tag
  Allow selecting of new tag number
    Call updateTag()

Hopefully this covers enough for pseudocode, I wanted to have enough ready to go so that I am well equiped to get a start on it if this is approved for the course. This has included a decent amount of research into Next and supabase so that I am better able to adjust my knowledge from us using Node and mongodb. Let me know if I need any adjustments.

### Category Two: Algorithms and Data Structures
For Algorithms and Data Structures, being able to augment my very first program to add a bit more randomness to it can help keep the game exciting while also showcasing my skills and abilities in the area. While I am calling it procedural generation, I would think its more so of random choice, basically leading the user along different locations until they find all of the items, which could be in any of the rooms rather than the predetermined locations that they were in the first iteration. I believe this will entail running an algorithm to determine what items the user has already found, and giving them a chance to appear in each new room that the user goes into.

### Category Three: Databases
For Databases, my personal project web application will more than be able to show my abilities and skills in the area. There will need to be two seperate database tables, one containing users and one containing the tags. These can then be edited through actions the admins make.

Pseudocode:

Database structure:
Table: users
  id (UUID) - Primary key
  email (String)
  name (String)
  role (admin/player)
Table: tags
  id (UUID) - Primary key
  user_id (UUID) - Foreign key linking
  tag_number (Integer)

### ePortfolio Overall Skill Set

Each individual code review will allow me to display my knowledge and ensure that I understand how each aspect of my code works. I can also showcase some aspects of the code that may be underappreciated normally, allowing me to bring spotlight to some of these parts of my code that I am proud of.

The narratives will allow me to express myself through words, As I have done throughout this initial proposal. The narratives also allow me to describe aspects of the projects that may be slightly harder to put directly into words.

The professional self-assessment provdes an overview of how I perceive myself and what value I could provide myself as apart of a team to a company after graduating. This can also help open up other aspects of my skills that I am unsure of, to where I can try to further hone them later.

### Further questions/ concerns

I also plan to implement a much more cohesive portfolio page that much better reflects what I want it to be visually when I have more time to commit to it. If the web based application seems too ambitious or a bit against the idea of the capstone I had originally planned to make my initial IT 140 course project into a mobile application, which should take care of the enhancements that I would be missing. Please let me know any concerns you have yourself!
